/Users/<Username>/Library/Group Containers/UBF8T346G9.Office/Outlook/Outlook 15 Profiles/

https://appuals.com/fix-outlook-for-macs-search-not-working/
Fix: Outlook for Mac’s Search Not Working
By Kevin Arrows July 22, 2021 6 minutes read

Outlook is a great program for managing your emails from multiple accounts. Outlook also provides a wide range of
features that can be useful for overall time management. Overall, Outlook is a great software that is suitable for
business people for management of emails. But, despite being very useful, you might encounter some problems while
using Outlook for Mac. A very common problem in Outlook for Mac is its search problems. Sometimes, if you try to
search for a specific email you will get “No results found” from the search result. This is a problem because it will
give you the “No results found” answer even if your email is in the folder. The error comes without any prior warning
so you won’t be able to detect or prevent it. This can be a huge problem especially for people with a lot of emails
because it would take a lot of time for them to go through all the emails.

The exact reason of this error is still unknown though but there are a couple of things that might cause this problem
like corrupt or incomplete spotlight indexing, one of the parent folders being in privacy tab, Outlook profile folder
being stored at a wrong place and several others. Since it can happen because of a lot of things, there are multiple
methods that you can try to solve this.

So, go through each method listed below and check whether the problem is solved after following each method.

If you recently added a new account or a new profile or imported new data into the Outlook then it might simply be
a matter of time. It takes some time to add newly imported data to Spotlight index. So
wait until the indexing is complete and then try again.

Make sure that you have all the latest updates of office. The issue is usually solved by updating your Microsoft
Office as well. To update, just simply open Microsoft Outlook, select Help and then select Check for updates. It will
check and automatically install the updates.

Sometimes the problem might be caused by the Outlook Profile folder being stored at the wrong place. There is a
default location where these folders are supposed to be stored. So, checking these places is a good way to check
whether the problem is because of wrong destination. This is the default location

/Users/<Username>/Library/Group Containers/UBF8T346G9.Office/Outlook/Outlook 15 Profiles/

Make sure that there aren’t any special characters in your Outlook Profile’s name because that can create a lot of
problems. If there are then go to method 1 to delete and recreate your Outlook Profile.

However, if you don’t want to delete and recreate your profile, you can go to this location
/Users/<Username>/Library/Group Containers/UBF8T346G9.Office/Outlook/Outlook 15 Profiles/ and
rename your Profile folder without the special characters as well. Don’t forget to replace “<Username>” with your
mac username.

Method 1: Remaking Outlook Profile

Sometimes deleting your current Microsoft Outlook profile and recreating the profile solves the problem. The steps for
deleting and recreating the Outlook’s profile are given below.

Open your Outlook
Go to Outlook and then Preferences
Select Accounts
Select the account that is having this issue and select the minus (-) symbol
Confirm the action and select delete when it asks for confirmation
Close Outlook once the deleting of account is done
Now go to your Applications folder
Right click Outlook and select Show Package Contents
Now go to Contents and then select ShareSupport
Now open Outlook Profile Manager
Select your main profile, that you are having troubles with, and select the minus (-) symbol to delete it.
Confirm any additional prompts
Once it is deleted, select the plus (+) symbol on the bottom left corner to create a new profile
Name the profile something other than the Main Profile. It can be your first name or anything. Also,
DO NOT include any special characters in the name.
Now open Outlook
Go to Outlook and then Preferences
Select Accounts
Select the plus (+) symbol on the bottom left corner to add the account
Select the type of account you want and proceed
Once you add the account, check the search results once the emails are synced and imported.

Method 2: Moving Message to another Account
This isn’t a solution but more of a workaround but it works for plenty of users. Basically, if you move all of your
message, that are having this problem, to another temporary folder within the Outlook and then move them back to their
original folder then the search works. This is because it forces the Outlook to re-index them in the search and they
start to appear in the search results.

Open Outlook
Press and Hold CTRL (Control) key and click on the folder, from the folder list, in which you want to make a new folder.
This newly created folder will be used as a temporary folder for your items.
Select New folder and then name it whatever you want. Now press Enter.
Now, Hold down Command key and click the items that you want to select.
Once you are done, click Move in your Home tab
Select Choose Folder
Now type your destination folder’s name. In this case the name of the folder we created above. Once it appears in
the result, click it
Select Move
Once your messages are moved, repeat the steps from 4-8 to move your messages back to their original folder
Once you are done, check the search results and it should work fine. If you want to delete the temporary folder that
you created then right click the folder, select delete and then confirm any additional prompts.

Method 3: Check Spotlight Privacy Tab
Make sure that you’re Outlook Profile or any of its parent’s folder aren’t in the privacy tab of Spotlight. If your
Outlook Profile or any of its parent folder are displayed in the Spotlight privacy tab then Spotlight won’t be able to
search. So, remove them from the privacy tab of Spotlight and try again.

To remove your folders from the privacy tab of Spotlight, follow the steps given below

Spotlight Preferences
Privacy
Now look for your Outlook’ Profile folder or any of its parents folder in the list
If you find any folder then select it and click the minus (-) symbol on the bottom left to remove it from the privacy tab
Quit the system preferences and wait a little bit because it will take some time to re-index the Spotlight.
Once the re-indexing is done, check if the search is working again or not.

Method 4: Fix Corrupt Spotlight Index
If nothing else worked then it’s very likely that the Spotlight index may be corrupted. There are some steps that you
can take to re-index the Spotlight index which will solve this problem if the problem is caused by the
corrupt Spotlight index.

Restart your Mac just to make sure that the Spotlight index services are running
Terminal --> Type
mdimport –L
Now check if you see more than 1
Microsoft Outlook Spotlight Importer.mdimporter
Delete the Outlook application that you aren’t using. Once you are done,
empty it from the Trash, restart your Mac, and go back to step 1.
Now type
mdimport -g “/Applications/Microsoft Outlook.app/Contents/Library/Spotlight/Microsoft Outlook Spotlight Importer.mdimporter” -d1 “/Users/<user_name>/Library/Group Containers/UBF8T346G9.Office/Outlook/Outlook 15 Profiles/<my_profile_name>”

On the recent versions of Windows the “-g” doesn’t work anymore, therefore, try the following command if the above one
doesn’t work for you and proceed with the steps below:

mdimport -r “/Applications/Microsoft Outlook.app/Contents/Library/Spotlight/Microsoft Outlook Spotlight Importer.mdimporter” -d1 “/Users/<user_name>/Library/Group Containers/UBF8T346G9.Office/Outlook/Outlook 15 Profiles/<my_profile_name>”

-g means the default install location of Outlook and the address after –d1 is the default path for your profile folder.
If you installed your outlook in a custom location then substitute your custom path in place of –g. Or, if you
changed the path of your Outlook Profile folder then substitute that path after –d1.

Wait for it to complete because it will take some time to re-index the Spotlight. Once it is done, check the search again.