It’s extremely unlikely that your phone has been hacked using NSO software, but there is now a way to
check your iPhone for Pegasus spyware – or, at least, some tell-tale signs.

The spyware was used to target human rights activists, lawyers, journalists, and politicians, and has been
linked to assaults and murder of dissidents, so the chances of a random iPhone user
being impacted are exceedingly low …

However, if you are concerned,
Amnesty International
has released a tool designed to help you check.

The bad news, as TechCrunch explains, is that it’s not an entirely straightforward process.

The
Mobile Verification Toolkit, or MVT, works on both iPhones and Android devices, but slightly differently.
Amnesty said that more forensic traces were found on iPhones than Android devices, which makes it easier to detect on iPhones.
MVT will let you take an entire iPhone backup (or a full system dump if you jailbreak your phone) and
feed in for any indicators of compromise (IOCs) known to be used by NSO to deliver Pegasus,
such as domain names used in NSO’s infrastructure that might be sent by text message or email. If you have an
encrypted iPhone backup, you can also use MVT to decrypt your backup without having to make a whole new copy.

The toolkit works on the command line, so it’s not a refined and polished user experience and requires some
basic knowledge of how to navigate the terminal. We got it working in about 10 minutes, plus the time to
create a fresh backup of an iPhone, which you will want to do if you want to check up to the hour. To
get the toolkit ready to scan your phone for signs of Pegasus, you’ll need to feed in
Amnesty’s IOCs, which it has on its GitHub page. Any time the indicators of compromise file updates, download and
use an up-to-date copy.

Once you set off the process,
the toolkit scans your iPhone backup file for any evidence of compromise. The process took about a minute or two to run and
spit out several files in a folder with the results of the scan. If the toolkit finds a possible compromise, it
will say so in the outputted files.

You can download the tool from GitHub, and find detailed documentation here.

There has been some misreporting of the spyware, suggesting that iPhones were somehow more vulnerable. The reality is that
Amnesty focused its efforts on iPhones because the improved security they offer make it easier to detect
when a phone has been compromised. It is possible to check Android phones, but with many more false negatives.